.TH RUSTPACK 8 "February 2026" "rustpack" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
rustpack \- ALPM-first package manager for Arch-style systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rustpack
.RI [ operation ]
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ targets ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rustpack
is a package manager frontend that uses
.B libalpm
for package database access, dependency resolution, and package transactions.
The CLI follows pacman-style operations and flags for common workflows.
.SH OPERATIONS
.TP
.B -S
Sync/install operation against configured repositories.
.TP
.B -Q
Query installed packages.
.TP
.B -R
Remove installed packages.
.TP
.B -U
Install local package file(s).
.TP
.B doctor
Run package manager health checks.
.TP
.B history
Show transaction history and inspect entries.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B --test, --dry-run
Simulate transaction without commit.
.TP
.B --noconfirm
Do not prompt for confirmation.
.TP
.B --needed
Skip reinstalling up-to-date packages (sync/install only).
.TP
.B --nodeps
Skip dependency checks (dangerous).
.TP
.B --noscriptlet
Skip scriptlets (sync/local install only).
.TP
.B --overwrite \fIGLOB\fR
Allow file overwrite conflicts.
.TP
.B --asdeps, --asexplicit
Set install reason for sync/install targets.
.TP
.B --root \fIPATH\fR
Use alternate root directory.
.TP
.B --dbpath \fIPATH\fR
Use alternate database path.
.TP
.B --cachedir \fIPATH\fR
Use alternate package cache path.
.TP
.B --strict
Enable stricter safety policy and reject dangerous flag combinations.
.TP
.B --insecure-skip-signatures
Disable package and database signature verification.
Use only as an emergency workaround for broken keyring state.
.TP
.B --compact
Reduce output noise.
.TP
.B --verbose
Show extra operation context.
.SH SUB-FLAGS
.SS Sync (-S)
.B -Sy, -Su, -Syu, -Ss, -Si, -Sc, -Scc, -Sd, -Sdd
.SS Query (-Q)
.B -Qi, -Qs, -Ql, -Qm, -Qo, -Qe, -Qr
.SS Remove (-R)
.B -Rs, -Rn, -Rd, -Rdd
.SS Local Install (-U)
.B -Ud, -Udd
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B rustpack -Ss firefox
Search repositories.
.TP
.B sudo rustpack -S firefox
Install a package.
.TP
.B sudo rustpack -Syu
Refresh repositories and full system upgrade.
.TP
.B rustpack -Qe
List explicitly installed packages.
.TP
.B rustpack history show <id>
Show details for one history entry.
.SH SAFETY
For transactional operations, rustpack performs preflight checks including DB lock
status, keyring presence, and keyring package verification.
The emergency option
.B --insecure-skip-signatures
should be used only to recover from broken signature infrastructure.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/pacman.conf
Main configuration source.
.TP
.I /var/log/rustpack/history.log
Transaction history log file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pacman (8)
.SH AUTHORS
rustpack contributors.
